Well let's work a little more on this shoulder piece.
What I'd like to do is maybe get some of this kind of edging around the shoulder plate and also try
and imprint some designs on it.
Kind of like this that we see here.
I'd like kind of raised imprint of these kinds of designs so let's see if we can work on that.
Right now I've got a subdivision surface modifier on it.
I'm going to go ahead and take that off and I'm going to add a multi resolution and I'll just subdivide
it always see maybe let's try five here.
I will zoom in with the period key on the numpad.
And here we go.
I think I should probably isolate it as well.
Maybe I'll just move it to a hole there or is it on it.
Oh it's on it's own lair here so I'll just work with this now.
So the first thing let's do is work on these ridges around the corners here around the edges to do that.
I'll come back over to sculpt mode.
Let's switch over to the sculpt draw brush.
I don't need a texture on this so I'll just hit the X here to remove the texture.
So let's see what kind of ridge we can get on this all hit the F key to shrink the size of the brush
and I'll zoom in here and just do a couple of stroke tests just to see what I can get.
I'll just google along here.
It's not bad.
I think I needed to be a little bit stronger.
Let me increase the strength here.
And I'll try this.
That's pretty good.
I like that.
But let's also turn on smooth stroke so we can have a little bit smoother line.
So I'll just begin here and let's try this one to begin right about here and just drag along this edge
like so and see how this works.
So I'll just kind of work on this around the whole piece.
And see what we can come up with.
Now disinter up my brush here say in this area when I'm in sculped mode I can press alt F and it will
frame that up and center that point right in the center of my view.
And now when I tumble around it's going to tumble at that point.
So that kind of helps as you're going around a piece like this.
And I think maybe I'll try another madcap so I'll press the End key on the keyboard and scroll down
to the Metcalf's here and see if this one is going to help me see a little better I think this one will.
So I'll go back to that one.
Now I want to create this in here.
I'll turn on smooth stroke again and maybe give me a little bit more of a radius there.
And let's try this.
I'm just going to try and do it freehand.
Why not.
I'll begin up here and come down and then turn and
something like that now I can't tell but it looks like there may be one right down the center there.
Let's do that.
See if I can bring one from here.
All the way down to this edge or this point see how this works.
So now what I'd like to do is create some of this kind of interesting pattern work here and here and
maybe down here and over here.
Let's see if we can do that.
So what I've done is I've gone out to Google images and I've found some tattoo designs.
I just googled tattoo designs and hundreds of them came up and I just grabbed this one here.
So what I want to do is make brushes for my texture brush from these designs.
So I've already done one here and I've just taken the design deleted the background out of it and inverted
the color.
And this one I've saved out as a P and g file that I can then bring in as a texture to my brush in Blender.
So the first thing I'll do is come up here to file and go to new and I've already typed in 1 0 0 0 0
and by 1 0 0 0 0 0.
So I'm just going to click OK to create a new document and here it is what I'll do now is come over
here and go to my rectangle select tool and select and drag select one of these pieces right here say
this one and all press control or command C to copy that and I'll come back here to my new document
Press Control Command V to paste that in.
Now once I do that you see I've got this floating selection pasted layer thing.
I just need to right click and choose two new layer and that will create it as a layer.
So if I turn off my background you can see I've got that white around this I need to get rid of that.
So I'll just come over here to the fuzzy select tool and click in the white area.
And now all I have do is just delete this and now it just leaving the black behind I'll de-select this
by going to select none.
You can also do shift command day.
And now you can see that I've got just that design with no background here.
So now I can invert this I'll select the layer that the design is on and I'll go to colors and invert.
And there you are.
So now we've got something that we can use as a texture for our brushes.
So I'll go ahead and save this I'll save file export as.
And it's going to export as a P and g here.
And I've got a brushes folder in my project folder here so I'll just call this tattoo to and export
and I'll do that.
A couple more times with these other ones I'm not real sure which ones I want to use so I'll make a
brush for each of them.
I'll come back over here and I'll go to my rectangle select and I'll drag select this part right here
to try and grab this and then I'll come over here to that document I already created and I'll just use
this same one.
I'll just paste this with control or command v.
All right click Choose two new layer and I'll hide the old one like that fuzzy select tool.
Click on the white part delete it.
Select everything.
And now I just need to invert the color and then we go.
Now I can go to a file export as.
And this one I'll call tattoo 3.
All right.
So now we have all of our designs saved out as PMG images.
Let's go back to Blendr and see if we can use these for our texture brushes.
All right.
Back here in Blender.
Let's go down to our textures area here.
And let's create a new texture instead of clicking here.
I'm going to go ahead and come over here to this texture area over here.
And click on new and I want an image or a movie which is what it is there and I click Open and here
we can come into our brushes folder and find those tattoo images.
So here's that tattoo one I'll see you actually.
Let me switch over to the images and see which one I want.
So here are the brushes I have in here they are.
I think maybe I'll begin with this one here or maybe this one and I'll try this here so I'll open the
image and we can see that texture in our texture brush here.
So now what I want to do is I'm going to align this kind of like this and I want to be able to lay it
down using the stroke method of anchored and I want to have a fairly low strength here.
So now if I press the F key you can see that I've got this image now attached to to my brush and I'll
hit the escape key to get out of that for now.
And as long as I have this anchored stroke method selected I can click and drag where I want this to
appear so if I want the center of the image to begin say here I can click and drag and it will begin
to put that image down like that.
Now I didn't quite get it where I wanted it.
Let me try that again.
Maybe I'll do it here.
You can see you can lay down these imprints of the brush.
Something like that.
Come over here and do the same thing again but this time it needs to go the other way.
Right.
So I need to have a mirror image of it because I'd like to put that mirror image of it right there.
So what I can do is I can come up here to the size and offset area under whereas this is under the texture
and for the y axis I can maybe put negative one in here and hit return and then maybe I'll come in here
and try and do this right here.
And that'll spin it around so it's the mirror image of it.
And we try and get that right.
And here looks like I need to redo that.
Let me try that again.
A little bit farther up we go.
Maybe I want that one to be right about there.
There we go.
So now you can come through with different designs and lay them down on your objects to get kind of
bá relief imprint from designs you can find or make in Gimp.
So I'll continue on with this and a couple of more imprints on here with the other designs I have.
And then in the next video I think we're going to take a look at finishing up the hands the claws or
the long fingernail type things maybe work on the ears try and finish up the general details of the
character itself.